As a reminder, we are here section 14 and
we're going to do Redux.
I am going to stop my server here.
I'm going to get out of this,
I'm gonna copy over my portals and
refs folder.
And I'm going to copy that into a folder
called like Redux or something.
And then inside of redux,
we're gonna run npm install.
That'll take a second.
And then I will open Redux in my editor.
This one can go away.
I don't care about TypeScript anymore.
Though, before we get started here.
TypeScript and
Redux work together super well.
Like those things are like made for
each other, if you gonna be doing Redux,
I strongly suggest that you
pair it with TypeScript.
Because all of the actions and stores and
things like that, which we'll get into
it will make sense in a second,
but they work super well together.
So let's talk about Redux,
particularly if you've been watching all
of complete intro and all of intermediate.
I've alluded to Redux quite a bit.
And it's just because it's a really
popular library to pair together
with React.
There was a time where basically
like React Redux was like a complete
thought that people just
assumed always win together.
I would say that I did not
always feel that way and
I'll say that with the advent
of a useful context API and
hooks that that has more mostly
obviated the need for Redux.
I'll say that like 95% of the use cases
of what you used to use Redux for
are no longer applicable, you can
do it just in straight up react and
you don't need Redux.
There are still some use cases
where Redux is helpful and useful.
And I'll maybe talk about that at the end.
But still,
we're gonna talk about Redux now,
we're gonna go through
a full implementation of it.
And the reason why is when people
learn react, their first question is,
is what about Redux?
And so now because so
many people have that question.
I want them to be able to answer
that question for themselves.
So why do we have Redux?
One context used to be really
bad react context that is and so
that got fixed quite a bit, but it used
to really be bad, so we didn't have that.
The second thing I'll say is this Redux
is extremely testable, and we saw that
with the use reducer when we were going
over that in the hooks and depth section.
Use reducer is just imitating Redux,
right, that's the point of it.
But Redux is kind of the big
value proposition of Redux is
that everything that you write
in Redux is extremely testable.
It's extremely modular.
And so that makes it,
useful for a subset of things.
And then the other thing I'll say is it
has this really cool debugging story that
has like a whole extension, we'll I'll
show you how to use it here in just a bit.
But the bugging Redux is actually quite
nice, the tradeoff here is that Redux
can be kind of hard to follow, like it
can be kind of hard to read the code and
I'll say that it is a,
Simple, but hard library.
You can actually implement Redux
in about 80 lines of code.
It's really not doing very much for you.
But I'll say, despite the fact that it's
simple in the sense that it's a small API
and it doesn't do a lot, it's actually
really hard to kind of wrap your
mind around what you're supposed
to be doing with it so.
And I'll contrast that with something
that's like complicated but easy.
So I would judge personally that Angular
is a very easy thing to work with,
but it's complicated, right, and it's
big and it does a lot of things for you.
So take that for what you will.
So React state management is a pretty
simple thing as it exists today.
You call set state or
you call like a use state hook or
the set state from US From the hook,
and then you update the state and
then react re renders like
the contract there is very simple.
The problem is that Redux can solve for
you is that it's hard to test
changes in state, right?
So if I'm going from state A to state B,
inside of a React component,
you would have to expose that
to make that testable, or
you have to pull it out
to make it testable.
Whereas with Redux, it does that for you
pulls all of the state management out of
it, so you can just test
the state management part of it.
That's the best thing that I
can say about Redux there.
So let's go over the entire lifecycle
of what happens with Redux.
And then we're gonna go code it up.
The reason why we're gonna do this is
because Redux is kind of all or nothing.
Like it was nice with TypeScript.
I could like we could write a little
bit and then see if it worked and
then write a little bit and
see if it worked, right?
Redux unfortunately is like you
have to go from 0 to 100 and
there's no middle ground, right?
So we're gonna have to
do a full rewrite and
we don't get to have any like checkpoints
or milestones or something like that you
just got to go from zero to the to
the end and pray that everything worked.
So I want to explain everything
that's about to happen to you,
then we're gonna do it, and
you're gonna experience it and
you're gonna say what
the hell are we doing?
And then at the end of it, you might still
be asking what the hell we're doing, but
you'll at least have some
understanding of why we got there.
Okay, so let's open our application
here and I'm gonna run my server.
I think I already installed, right?
I didn't, so we're running on 1, 2, 3, 4.
So here's our application.
And I wanna explain to you, I guess what
Redux does first it's a data store, right?
So if you think back to context, it's
like application level available data.
Basically, what Redux is gonna do is
we're going to basically pull all of
your data out into a store that
lives side by side with React.
And then every time that we update
the data store the data store then informs
react like hey stuff changed
please update accordingly, okay?
So instead of location living
in a hook here, right,
we're gonna move this into Redux.
So if you remember here I'll
show you in search params.
If I type into the location here,
I press A,
that is going to call
update location here.
This is a function that came from the hook
and then that's going to update React.
Search params is going to run
again it's gonna rerender and
the state of the hook here is going to be,
whatever I type in there, right?
So if I type A in this cause update
location that informs React,
my hook has changed React re-renders and
here we are.
Right, pretty short little cycle there,
what happens if this was a Redux,
enabled form?
I would type in the form, right, that
would call the event listener down here.
Instead of this calling update location,
it would dispatch an action to Redux.
So typically you're gonna
call the action creator,
which is going to create an action object.
So that action object is then going
to be passed to Redux, right?
Redux is then gonna pass that into
the route reducer and a route reducer,
all it does is it takes in old state,
it takes in an action and
returns to you news state, right?
And that's the progression, so
we pass it to the root reducer,
the root reducer might delegate it to
a sub like another reducer, right?
So that your root reducer is very simple
and then you have like sub reducers that
handle all the various different
types of actions, right?
That reducer will return a new state
given the action and the old state,
which will return to the root reducer
which will then return to redux.
Redux will say cool I got new state.
Redux will then call into reactors and
say, hey, I have new state here at which
point reacts will say, cool,
I'm gonna rerender it and
then you'll see the change
manifested in the user interface.
So we took what used to be two steps and
made it into ten steps.
I hope you're asking something like,
does that seem worth it?
And the reason why it's useful that it's
broken to ten steps is basically all of
those steps are now testable.
You can say given this given this I get
this, right, and you can test that all
along the pathway from user types
into user sees it and react.
And I said this earlier in the course,
but I'll repeat the mantra here, which is
basically most bugs arise from handling
change in your application poorly, right?
Change in state, it's some manifestation
that your state did not change in a way
that you expected it to.
This is one way to assure is like if I
have this and I have this and I get this,
then everything's gonna be okay.
And you can assure yourself of that,
that's the entire point of Redux, okay?
So I know we're very
abstract at the moment.
Let's go and actually make this
concrete and start by working on this.
So pause your application for
just a second,
and let's go ahead install
npm install redux@4.1.2 and
react-redux which is just
bindings from react to redux so
that they can talk to each other well.
You can actually implement yourself
react- redux fairly simply,
don't cuz someone else did it and
they did it really well.
But I'll tell you that React Redux
is just not that complicated.
At 7.2,6, okay?
Awesome, and you can probably start your
server again or whatever hold check later.
And then we're gonna create
a new file here and source and
we're gonna call it store.js, Okay,
new file store.js We're gonna import
a function called Create store from Redux.
Okay, then here we'll import something
called reducer from./reducers.
We'll make this here in just a second,
but for now,
just pretend this as a function that
we're gonna write here in a little bit.
Okay, create something called a store and
equals create store.
Reducer.
Now this would be enough for
us to get started here and
then you just say export default store,
and we will be done here.
We're gonna look at the Redux dev
tools here in just a second, so
let's go ahead and make that available.
So the first thing we're gonna
do is we're gonna be kind of
defensive of if we instantiate this or
not.
So we're gonna say, and I just took this
directly from their docs by the way,
if typeof window === 'object'.
So if we're not in node, right,
cuz we want this to still be
able to server side render, and,
typeof window.__REDUX_DEVTOOLS_extension
which,
by the way, you can totally just copy this
from the Docs cuz this
is exactly what I did.
__ So
as they call it in Python land the Dunder,
I did not make that,
tp the double underscore.
That's not undefined.
Okay, we'll do a ternary here.
Either we gonna call this
cuz this will be a function.
Otherwise, just give it a this would
be called an identity function,
all right, that might be
a little bit easier to read now.
So what have we done here?
One, you don't really need to care,
again, if you just copy the stripe here.
The docs, you would never care what it's
actually doing that we can even just put
a comma in here.
This enables the redux dev tools.
But if you're curious what it does,
it checks to see are you in the browser?
And do they have the extension installed?
If they do,
enable the extension, otherwise,
give it a function that
will just do nothing.
So here what we're doing is
we're giving Redux a middleware.
So Redux actually has tons of middlewares
that you can use with it one of them is
like Redux thunk that's a really popular
ones actually talk about that in one of
my former courses.
Redux sagas Redux promises Is Redux RxJS,
or I think it's called Redux Observable.
All of those things would go here.
And those are all basically ways of
handling asynchronous code inside
of Redux.
At the moment, Redux doesn't do any
asynchronous code out of the box.
You have to augment it with additional
capabilities via middlewares to be able to
do that.